# Prompt Engineering for a Complete SDLC Workflow

Crafting a sequence of well-defined prompts can guide an AI through each
phase of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), from initial idea
to a finished project. Below, we break down the SDLC into stages and
explain how to design hyper-focused prompts for each area, using
advanced prompt engineering techniques. Each prompt is tailored to
gather the right information or produce the desired output while
preventing common issues like AI hallucinations, scope creep, or
deviations from best practices.

## Requirements Gathering

In the **requirements phase**, the goal is to elicit a clear
understanding of the project's objectives, features, and constraints. To
achieve this, design prompts that adopt the role of a skilled business
analyst or product manager and ask comprehensive questions about the
project. The prompt should encourage the AI to systematically query the
user (or stakeholder) for all relevant information:

- **Role and Context:** Begin by instructing the AI to act as a
    requirements analyst. For example: *"You are a business analyst
    helping to define a software project's requirements."* This sets the
    stage and focuses the AI on relevant questioning
    techniques[\[1\]](https://www.byteplus.com/en/topic/407919#:~:text=To%20get%20the%20most%20out,from%20a%20particular%20expert%20perspective)[\[2\]](https://www.byteplus.com/en/topic/407919#:~:text=purpose%20of%20the%20code%2C%20and,from%20a%20particular%20expert%20perspective).
- **Ask Clarifying Questions:** Have the AI ask about the project's
    purpose, target users, and key features. A good prompt might
    include: *"Ask me any questions needed to clarify the project's
    goals, target audience, required features, constraints (like budget
    or deadline), and success criteria."* This ensures no crucial aspect
    is missed. For instance, ChatGPT in planning can ask, *"What are the
    potential risks and challenges associated with this project?"* or
    *"What are the best tools and technologies to use for this
    project?"*[\[3\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=,to%20use%20for%20this%20project%3F%E2%80%9D).
    By soliciting such details, the AI gathers functional requirements,
    non-functional requirements, and any domain-specific considerations.
- **Iterative Refinement:** Encourage a back-and-forth. The AI should
    present a summary of understood requirements and ask if anything is
    missing. This iterative prompting aligns with the principle *"the
    output's quality depends on the input's
    quality"*[\[4\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=Simply%20put%2C%20the%20output%E2%80%99s%20quality,depends%20on%20the%20input%E2%80%99s%20quality),
    refining the requirements with each exchange.

*Example Prompt (Requirements):*

"**Act as a software requirements analyst.** I have an idea for a
software project. Please **ask me a series of questions** to gather all
necessary requirements and constraints. Start by asking about the
project's overall goal and target users, then ask about specific
features, performance needs, security, and any other important
requirements. **Ensure each question is clear and addresses a different
aspect** (functional needs, non-functional criteria, timeline, etc.).
Once I answer, use my answers to ask follow-up questions until you have
a comprehensive understanding. Finally, **summarize the requirements**
you've gathered in a concise list."

This approach yields a thorough requirements specification through
multi-turn dialogue. It leverages natural language and detailed context
to improve answer
quality[\[5\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=1,For%20example)[\[6\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=for%20loop%20in%20Python%20to,a%20colleague%20you%E2%80%99re%20having%20a).
By the end, we should have a clear description of what the project must
accomplish.

## Technology Stack Research

With requirements in hand, the next step is to determine the appropriate
technology stack and high-level design approach. Here, we **prompt the
AI to research and recommend** languages, frameworks, or tools that fit
the project's needs. The prompt should remain **platform-agnostic** at
first (since we haven't assumed any specific tech), and gather reasoning
for each option to guide a manual decision. Key techniques include
asking for pros/cons and referencing known solutions:

- **State the Project Context:** Begin the prompt by summarizing the
    project (you can feed in the requirements summary from the previous
    step as context). This ensures the AI's suggestions are
    relevant[\[6\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=for%20loop%20in%20Python%20to,a%20colleague%20you%E2%80%99re%20having%20a).
    For example, *"We are developing a mobile healthcare appointment
    scheduling app with 5 developers over 6
    months[\[7\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=%E2%80%9CGenerate%20a%20project%20charter%20document,%E2%80%9D)."*
- **Ask for Recommendations with Justifications:** Request the AI to
    suggest a tech stack or architecture. For instance: *"Given the
    requirements above, what are the best tools, programming languages,
    and frameworks to use for this project, and why?"* This mirrors a
    planning-stage question like *"What are the best tools and
    technologies to use for this
    project?"*[\[3\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=,to%20use%20for%20this%20project%3F%E2%80%9D).
    The AI might weigh options (e.g. **React Native** vs **Flutter** for
    a mobile app, or different backend frameworks) and mention how each
    meets the requirements (scalability, security, team expertise,
    etc.).
- **Ensure Comparative Analysis:** A well-engineered prompt can ask
    for pros and cons of each option to avoid one-sided or random
    answers. For example: *"Provide 2--3 possible tech stack choices and
    discuss their advantages and drawbacks in the context of our
    project."* This pushes the AI to draw on factual knowledge of
    technologies rather than guessing, reducing the chance of
    hallucination. If available, ask for references or known industry
    examples for credibility (e.g., *"According to known best practices,
    which stack suits a healthcare mobile app and why?"*).

The output should be a researched recommendation, not a final decision.
As the user, you would review these suggestions (verifying any factual
claims) and choose a stack. It's important to **verify the AI's
claims**, since LLMs can occasionally sound confident with incorrect
info. Always *"check your work"*, as one prompt engineering guide
reminds us -- *ChatGPT can hallucinate, so verify outputs
yourself*[\[8\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=and%20refine%20as%20necessary,your%20judgment%20to%20the%20tool).
In practice, that means double-checking any critical technology advice
against documentation or trusted sources.

## Creating Memory and Context Artifacts

Throughout a multi-turn project, it's crucial to retain important
details so they can inform later stages. Large language models have a
limited conversation memory, so we create **"memory" prompts or files**
to store context and decisions that the AI (and user) can refer back to.
Two strategies help here: **summarization prompts** to condense
information, and **injection of context** into subsequent prompts:

- **Summarize Key Decisions:** After the requirements and tech stack
    discussions, prompt the AI to **summarize the project context**. For
    example: *"Summarize the agreed-upon requirements and chosen tech
    stack in a bullet list, including key constraints and success
    criteria."* The result might be a brief specification or project
    charter. This artifact serves as a single source of truth for what
    will be built.
- **Use the Summary in Future Prompts:** At the start of each new
    phase (design, coding, testing, etc.), you can prepend or reference
    this summary. For instance, *"Refer to the project summary: {insert
    summary}. Now, based on this, \[ask next task\]."* By doing so, we
    keep the AI grounded in the established context and **prevent it
    from forgetting** earlier details. OpenAI's guidelines suggest
    establishing context early in the conversation to frame
    answers[\[9\]](https://community.openai.com/t/chatgpt-memory-and-chat-history-usage-practicalities/1229848#:~:text=ChatGPT%20Memory%20and%20Chat%20History,%E2%80%9CFor%20this%20whole),
    and this technique achieves that by carrying forward a memory of
    prior steps.
- **Memory File Approach:** In a longer workflow, you might maintain
    an external "memory file" (in a tool or just a document) where all
    important outputs (requirements list, design decisions, coding
    guidelines, etc.) are saved. When needed, you copy the relevant
    parts into the prompt. This manual practice mimics how some advanced
    AI systems use vector databases for memory, but here it's done by
    the user. It ensures that at any point, the AI can be reminded: *"As
    previously decided, the project will use X and must meet Y
    criteria."*

By continually integrating these memory artifacts, we **protect against
hallucinations** and inconsistencies. The AI is less likely to introduce
contradictory details if we keep reminding it of the facts it should
stick to. Additionally, labeling and organizing these memory snippets
(e.g., *"Project Goals", "Tech Stack Chosen", "Coding Standards"*) helps
maintain clarity. This approach is reflected in community strategies
like the C.L.E.A.R. method (Collect, Label, Erase, Archive, Refresh),
which emphasize organizing and refreshing the AI's memory
context[\[10\]](https://www.reddit.com/r/ChatGPTPromptGenius/comments/1jqzpi9/finally_i_found_a_way_to_keep_chatgpt_remember/#:~:text=%E2%86%92%20C,ChatGPT%E2%80%99s%20memory)[\[11\]](https://www.reddit.com/r/ChatGPTPromptGenius/comments/1jqzpi9/finally_i_found_a_way_to_keep_chatgpt_remember/#:~:text=The%20prompt%20%E2%86%92).
While we may not explicitly run such a loop here, the essence is to keep
the conversation's important points always within the AI's attention.

## Task Breakdown and Dependency Tracking

With a solid vision and stack in place, the development work can be
organized. Use the AI to **break the project into manageable tasks and
sub-tasks**, complete with dependencies and priorities. A focused prompt
can transform a broad project into a structured work breakdown structure
(WBS):

- **Decompose the Project:** Prompt the AI to list major components or
    milestones first. For example: *"Break down the project into its
    main components or phases (e.g., front-end UI, backend API, database
    design, etc.)."* Then instruct it to break each component into
    specific tasks. A great template is: *"Deconstruct the project into
    smaller tasks. Identify major phases, then break each phase into
    actionable tasks with details."* An example from a prompt library
    demonstrates this approach, guiding the AI step-by-step to identify
    phases, tasks, and even time
    estimates[\[12\]](https://daily.promptperfect.xyz/p/break-down-project-into-manageable-tasks-with-chatgpt#:~:text=I%20have%20a%20project%20where,logical%20sequence%20and%20assign%20deadlines).
- **Include Dependencies and Sequencing:** The prompt should
    explicitly ask for any task prerequisites or order. For instance:
    *"For each task, note if it depends on completion of another task,
    and arrange tasks in logical sequence."* This way, the AI will flag
    things like "Database schema must be designed before API
    implementation" or "UI design should be finalized before front-end
    coding begins" -- classic dependency awareness in project
    planning[\[13\]](https://daily.promptperfect.xyz/p/break-down-project-into-manageable-tasks-with-chatgpt#:~:text=smaller%2C%20more%20manageable%20tasks,logical%20sequence%20and%20assign%20deadlines).
    The result might be a numbered list of tasks with sub-bullets for
    sub-tasks, each tagged with dependencies (e.g., Task 2 cannot start
    until Task 1 is done).
- **Output as a Structured List or Table:** To ensure clarity, you can
    request the output in a structured format. For example: *"Present
    the tasks as a markdown list, where each task includes an estimate
    (if possible) and dependencies."* This turns the AI's answer into a
    pseudo-project plan that is easy to follow. The **Daily Prompt**
    example shows an ideal output structure: a clear task list with
    durations and dependencies, organized for effective
    planning[\[14\]](https://daily.promptperfect.xyz/p/break-down-project-into-manageable-tasks-with-chatgpt#:~:text=sequence%20and%20assign%20deadlines)[\[15\]](https://daily.promptperfect.xyz/p/break-down-project-into-manageable-tasks-with-chatgpt#:~:text=,produces%20focused%20and%20practical%20output).

By having ChatGPT generate this WBS, we create a roadmap that will help
keep development focused. It's also a checkpoint against **feature
creep** -- tasks not in this list are by definition outside the initial
scope unless intentionally added later with good reason. If the AI
introduces tasks that seem off-scope, that's an opportunity to catch and
trim them now (e.g., "do we really need a machine learning component for
this simple app?"). In sum, this prompt uses the AI as a project
manager, ensuring we have **phases, tasks, and dependencies clearly laid
out** before we start coding.

## Preventing AI Hallucinations and Ensuring Accuracy

As we progress into design and development prompts, controlling for **AI
hallucinations** (confident but incorrect statements) is paramount.
Several prompt engineering techniques help minimize hallucinations and
keep the AI's output factual and relevant:

- **Provide High-Quality Context:** Always feed the AI the relevant
    details from previous steps (requirements summary, tech decisions,
    etc.) when asking for new output. This reduces the chance it will
    fill gaps with invented details. As noted earlier, *thorough context
    leads to more accurate
    outputs*[\[6\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=for%20loop%20in%20Python%20to,a%20colleague%20you%E2%80%99re%20having%20a).
- **Ask for Reasoning or Sources:** For critical answers (especially
    in research or design justification), prompt the model to explain
    *why* it suggests something. For example: *"Propose a database
    design and* *explain how it meets* *the scalability requirement."*
    By forcing an explanation, you can catch errors in its logic. In
    fact, asking for sources or references is a known method to check
    the AI's honesty -- *"If ChatGPT can't provide real sources, don't
    trust the
    answer."*[\[16\]](https://www.godofprompt.ai/blog/stop-chatgpt-hallucinations?srsltid=AfmBOooLgHoL8n8BWzBGCS3_gWCWoRyxrZB4Vc3hU7HHNw7OoymQBZxD#:~:text=Want%20more%20accurate%20answers%3F%20Follow,these%2010%20simple%20tips).
    In our context, while designing software, we might not get academic
    citations, but we can ask for things like, "Is this approach based
    on known design patterns or frameworks?" to gauge validity.
- **Keep Prompts Specific and Clear:** Broad or vague questions
    encourage the model to roam and possibly fabricate. Instead of
    *"Design the system,"* ask *"Design the system's* *high-level
    architecture* *in terms of components (UI, API, database) and
    describe the interactions. Do not assume any extra features beyond
    the requirements."* This clarity limits the scope of the
    answer[\[17\]](https://www.godofprompt.ai/blog/stop-chatgpt-hallucinations?srsltid=AfmBOooLgHoL8n8BWzBGCS3_gWCWoRyxrZB4Vc3hU7HHNw7OoymQBZxD#:~:text=3,or%20wrong%29%20answers).
    Also, breaking complex queries into smaller parts (design database
    schema *separately* from UI workflow, for instance) helps reduce
    errors[\[17\]](https://www.godofprompt.ai/blog/stop-chatgpt-hallucinations?srsltid=AfmBOooLgHoL8n8BWzBGCS3_gWCWoRyxrZB4Vc3hU7HHNw7OoymQBZxD#:~:text=3,or%20wrong%29%20answers).
- **Validation Checks:** We can incorporate a "verification" step
    prompt. After the AI produces an output (say a piece of code or a
    design), use a follow-up prompt like: *"Double-check the above for
    any assumptions or details not grounded in the provided context. If
    any exist, point them out."* Essentially, ask the AI to critique its
    own answer. Another strategy is re-asking the same question in a
    rephrased way later -- if the answers diverge greatly, that's a red
    flag (as the **God of Prompt** blog suggests: inconsistent answers
    mean
    uncertainty[\[18\]](https://www.godofprompt.ai/blog/stop-chatgpt-hallucinations?srsltid=AfmBOooLgHoL8n8BWzBGCS3_gWCWoRyxrZB4Vc3hU7HHNw7OoymQBZxD#:~:text=Not%20sure%20if%20ChatGPT%20is,up%3F%20Here%E2%80%99s%20how%20to%20tell)).
    While we can't fully eliminate hallucinations, these measures
    **greatly reduce their occurrence** or catch them before they cause
    issues.

Finally, **human oversight remains crucial**: Always double-check
critical outputs (design decisions, code logic, etc.) using your own
knowledge or external references. Prompt engineering can prompt the AI
to be careful, but it's not a substitute for expert
review[\[8\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=and%20refine%20as%20necessary,your%20judgment%20to%20the%20tool).
Treat the AI as a junior assistant or brainstorming partner, not an
infallible authority. This mindset ensures any hallucinated detail gets
corrected in subsequent turns.

## Avoiding Overengineering and Feature Creep

Feature creep -- the tendency to keep adding "one more feature" -- can
derail a project. Our prompts should actively guard against this by
keeping the AI focused on the **Minimal Viable Product (MVP)** and the
core requirements defined earlier. Strategies to enforce this include:

- **Reiterate the Core Vision:** Many prompts (especially in design
    and development) should begin by restating the project's primary
    goal and scope. For instance, *"Recall: The product's core purpose
    is to allow patients to schedule appointments and message doctors.
    All features must support this goal."* By reminding the AI of the
    *"crystal-clear product vision"* at each step, we align every
    suggestion with the core
    goals[\[19\]](https://productschool.com/blog/product-strategy/avoiding-feature-creep-tips-to-keep-your-product-focused#:~:text=Establishing%20a%20Clear%20Product%20Vision).
- **Explicit Scope Constraints:** Phrase prompts to explicitly
    disallow extra functionality. For example: *"Design the module for
    user login* *using only the requirements given. Do not introduce new
    features beyond what's specified (no social login unless requested,
    no extra profile fields, etc.)."* This acts as a safeguard so the AI
    doesn't get creative beyond the brief. If the user themselves
    attempts to enlarge scope mid-process, the AI (when following
    instructions) can gently flag that as scope creep: *"This feature
    was not in the original requirements. Are we expanding scope?"* --
    allowing a conscious decision rather than accidental bloat.
- **Prioritize and Say No:** Another prompt engineering trick is to
    have the AI act as a *gatekeeper*. For instance, *"List any feature
    ideas that have come up. For each, mark whether it's in-scope or
    out-of-scope based on the project requirements. If out-of-scope,
    suggest deferring it to a 'Phase 2'."* This aligns with project
    management best practices of using a roadmap to schedule future
    enhancements rather than expanding the current
    project[\[20\]](https://productschool.com/blog/product-strategy/avoiding-feature-creep-tips-to-keep-your-product-focused#:~:text=%E2%80%93%20Steve%20Johnson)[\[21\]](https://productschool.com/blog/product-strategy/avoiding-feature-creep-tips-to-keep-your-product-focused#:~:text=,product%E2%80%99s%20direction%20and%20expected%20outcomes).
    By structuring the conversation this way, any "nice-to-have" that
    sneaks in can be evaluated and potentially set aside for later,
    keeping the current development lean and focused.
- **Review Against Requirements:** After a design or implementation
    prompt, you can ask the AI to compare the result with the
    requirements list: *"Ensure that the design above addresses all
    functional requirements and none beyond. Confirm each requirement is
    met and nothing extra was added."* This final check uses the AI to
    cross-verify that we haven't inadvertently gold-plated the solution.

By systematically reinforcing scope boundaries, we prevent the AI from
overengineering the solution. The result is a product that stays true to
its intended purpose, avoiding the trap of a bloated tool with lots of
unused or unnecessary features. As product experts note, *feature creep
leads to a bloated product that loses its core
purpose*[\[22\]](https://productschool.com/blog/product-strategy/avoiding-feature-creep-tips-to-keep-your-product-focused#:~:text=Feature%20creep%20happens%20when%20a,was%20originally%20meant%20to%20do),
so our prompts act as the countermeasure, keeping the development on a
strict diet of **must-haves** only.

## Enforcing Coding Guidelines and Best Practices

Maintaining high code quality is vital, so we incorporate the project's
coding standards and industry best practices into our prompts. This way,
all code generated by the AI will be aligned with expected style and
quality from the start:

- **Establish Style Guidelines in Memory:** Early in the process
    (possibly during tech stack selection or just before coding), ask
    the AI to **recite relevant coding standards**. For example, *"List
    the key coding style rules for Python (PEP8) and any
    project-specific conventions we should follow."* If the company has
    an internal style guide, you could summarize it and provide it to
    the AI. We saw earlier that *many companies have internal coding
    standards, and AI-generated code should match these as closely as
    possible*[\[23\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=%2C%20you%20may%20need%20to,other%20users%20and%20OpenAI)[\[24\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=2,standards%20as%20closely%20as%20possible).
    By explicitly sharing these rules in the prompt, the AI will format
    and structure its code accordingly.
- **Include Guidelines in Code Prompts:** Whenever you prompt the AI
    to write code, remind it of these guidelines. For instance:
    *"Generate the Java class for the User entity, following our coding
    standards (use CamelCase for class names, include Javadoc comments,
    etc.) and best practices."* This ensures the output isn't just
    functionally correct but also stylistically consistent. If security
    or performance best practices are relevant (which they usually are),
    mention them too: *"\...follow best practices for input validation
    and error handling."*
- **Role Prompt as a Senior Developer:** A useful technique is to have
    the AI *"act as a senior {language} developer"*. For example: *"You
    are a senior Python developer. Write the function to do X, ensuring
    it's efficient and follows good coding practices (DRY, clear naming,
    etc.)."* Role-playing primes the AI to not just churn out code, but
    to do so thoughtfully as an expert
    would[\[1\]](https://www.byteplus.com/en/topic/407919#:~:text=To%20get%20the%20most%20out,from%20a%20particular%20expert%20perspective)[\[2\]](https://www.byteplus.com/en/topic/407919#:~:text=purpose%20of%20the%20code%2C%20and,from%20a%20particular%20expert%20perspective).
    It might do things like include comments or choose clearer logic
    structures by itself under this guidance.
- **Ask for Best Practice Checks:** After code is generated, a
    follow-up prompt can be: *"Review the above code for adherence to
    best practices and our style guide. If any deviations, correct
    them."* This double-check uses the AI's knowledge to polish the
    code. It's akin to running a linter or code review automatically. In
    fact, AI can be very effective at enforcing style consistency and
    catching simple issues, as it can apply rules systematically.
    *"ChatGPT can analyze thousands of lines for style and consistency
    in seconds,"* freeing human reviewers to focus on deeper
    issues[\[25\]](https://www.byteplus.com/en/topic/407919#:~:text=Integrating%20AI%20into%20the%20code,quality%20and%20maintainability%20across%20projects)[\[26\]](https://www.byteplus.com/en/topic/407919#:~:text=subtle%20bugs%2C%20performance%20bottlenecks%2C%20and,quality%20development%20workflow).

By building these guidelines into the prompts, we significantly reduce
the amount of cleanup needed later. The AI is less likely to produce,
say, non-compliant naming or formatting if we've reminded it at every
turn what the expectations
are[\[27\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=2,standards%20as%20closely%20as%20possible).
This prompt-engineering-driven discipline results in code that not only
works but is clean, readable, and maintainable, aligning with
professional standards from the outset.

## Development: Prompting for Implementation of Each Task

Now comes the core **development stage**, where the AI actually
generates code for each task in our plan. We handle this in an
iterative, task-by-task manner. The prompt design for coding tasks
should supply necessary context and specify the output needed (usually
code snippets or modules). Key considerations:

- **Focus on One Task at a Time:** It's best to tackle tasks
    individually or in logical groupings. For each task (from our WBS),
    start a prompt that clearly states what needs to be developed.
    *"Implement the user login API endpoint that validates credentials
    and returns a session token,"* for example. Include relevant
    details: *"Use the chosen tech stack (Express.js with MongoDB),
    follow the input/output format defined in the spec, and include
    error handling for wrong password."* By being this specific, we
    ensure the AI doesn't wander off-topic or merge multiple concerns.
- **Provide Context Inputs:** Whenever possible, provide the AI with
    additional context such as data models or previous code. For
    instance, if an earlier task created a database schema, include a
    summary of the schema in the prompt when generating the API code
    that interacts with it. This aligns with the prompt engineering
    principle of *adding context to guide the
    model*[\[28\]](https://maximebeauchemin.medium.com/mastering-ai-powered-product-development-introducing-promptimize-for-test-driven-prompt-bffbbca91535#:~:text=,to%20present%20a%20balanced%20view).
    An example prompt might be:

*"Below is the database model for* `User` *and* `Appointment`
*collections: {schema details}.* *Now, act as a backend developer* *and
write the Express.js route handler for* `POST /login`*. It should: check
user credentials against the database, create a JWT token using our
secret key, and return the token and user info.* *Follow best practices*
*(don't store plaintext passwords -- use the existing password hash,
etc.) and our coding standards."*

This prompt packs context (schema, endpoint spec), a role (backend
developer), and instructions (best practices, standards) into one --
resulting in a focused, high-quality output. - **Encourage Step-by-Step
Logic (if complex):** For complex algorithmic tasks, you might use a
two-step prompt: first ask the AI to outline a solution approach, then
ask for code. *"First, outline how you will implement feature X step by
step. Once I approve, provide the code."* This is a form of
**chain-of-thought prompting** that can help ensure the AI's plan is
correct before coding. It leverages the idea that breaking down the
reasoning or coding into steps can improve
accuracy[\[17\]](https://www.godofprompt.ai/blog/stop-chatgpt-hallucinations?srsltid=AfmBOooLgHoL8n8BWzBGCS3_gWCWoRyxrZB4Vc3hU7HHNw7OoymQBZxD#:~:text=3,or%20wrong%29%20answers).
Once the plan is sound, a subsequent prompt can be *"Great. Now
implement that in code, in a single cohesive snippet."* - **Constrain
Output Format:** Always specify how you want the answer. E.g., *"Provide
the code only, no explanation, enclosed in markdown triple backticks for
formatting."* Or if you *do* want an explanation for educational
purposes or clarity, ask for a brief one after the code. Specifying
format is a recommended technique to focus the
output[\[29\]](https://maximebeauchemin.medium.com/mastering-ai-powered-product-development-introducing-promptimize-for-test-driven-prompt-bffbbca91535#:~:text=%3E%20%3E%20,or%20sources%20for%20its%20claims).
It prevents scenarios where the AI might otherwise give unnecessary
commentary or omit code due to confusion about response style.

By developing each task in isolation and providing all needed context,
we **protect against mistakes propagating**. If one task's output
doesn't look right, we can correct it (with a refined prompt or
additional info) before moving on. This is the manual, iterative
approach as opposed to asking for a full codebase in one go (which would
almost certainly go off the rails). It mirrors how a human developer
tackles a project piece by piece, using each completed part to inform
the next.

Crucially, this stage is where the earlier groundwork pays off: because
we have a solid requirements memory, a chosen tech stack, a task list,
and coding standards all fed into the model, the code it generates
should align well with our needs on the **first attempt** more often
than not. We also continuously verify that the code meets the task
description (and tests, next section) to adjust if needed. This
methodical prompt-by-prompt development is essentially pair-programming
with the AI, ensuring we stay on track.

## UX and UI Design Assistance

If the project involves a user interface or any UX considerations, we
can dedicate prompts to **designing the UI/UX**. This can be split into
two parts: researching design best practices for our context, and then
having the AI produce actual design artifacts (like descriptions or code
for the UI).

### Researching UX Best Practices

Before designing the UI, gather guidance on what a good UI should entail
for our particular application. We prompt the AI to *act as a UX
designer or researcher* to get relevant insights:

- **Ask about Design Principles:** For example: *"What are the best
    practices for creating a user-friendly interface for a healthcare
    scheduling app?"* or *"List some UX design principles I should keep
    in mind (e.g. Nielsen's heuristics) for this type of application."*
    In the design stage, questions like *"How can we create a
    user-friendly interface for this application?"* and *"What are the
    best practices for responsive design?"* are exactly the kind of
    prompts
    recommended[\[30\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=,best%20practices%20for%20responsive%20design%3F%E2%80%9D).
    The AI might respond with guidelines about clarity, accessibility
    (important for healthcare), mobile responsiveness, etc., which we
    can then use in the actual design.
- **Inquire about Visual Design Patterns:** If our app has common
    features (like a login, dashboard, forms), ask the AI for typical UI
    patterns or examples. *"What are common design patterns for a
    scheduling calendar UI?"* might yield useful suggestions (like using
    a familiar calendar widget, highlighting available slots, etc.).
    This helps ensure our UI isn't reinventing the wheel and follows
    user expectations.
- **User Flow and Experience Questions:** We can even prompt the AI to
    think from the user's perspective: *"Describe the ideal user journey
    for scheduling an appointment through our app, step by step."* This
    might surface any UX considerations (like confirmation screens,
    notifications) that should be included. It's another way to verify
    we're not missing a piece of the interface that users would need.

By doing this research with the AI, we effectively compile a mini UX
brief. All this information should then inform the next step, where we
design the UI.

### UI Design and Prototyping Prompts

Now we translate those principles into a concrete UI design. Depending
on the needs, this could be done as a written specification or even
generating code (like HTML/CSS or frontend framework code). Key ways to
prompt for UI design:

- **High-Level Design Document:** One approach is to ask for a **UI
    design document or description**. For instance: *"Generate a UI
    design specification for the main screens of the app (login,
    appointment list, booking form, profile). Describe the layout and
    key elements of each screen, and explain how they follow UX best
    practices."* This could result in a text description of each screen
    (wireframe in words). In fact, the AI can create fairly detailed
    design docs. A sample prompt from earlier stages shows how to
    request this: *"Generate a detailed design document\... The document
    should include \... user interface design \... with any diagrams or
    flowcharts
    necessary."*[\[31\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=%E2%80%9CGenerate%20a%20detailed%20design%20document,design%2C%20and%20database%20design%2C%20along).
    While the AI can't draw images in plain ChatGPT, it can describe
    what a wireframe would contain or suggest a layout.
- **Front-end Code Generation:** If we know our front-end tech (say we
    chose React or simple HTML/CSS), we can ask the AI to produce
    starter code for the UI. For example: *"Using React and Material-UI,
    code the appointment booking page interface with a calendar view and
    form. Include proper component structure and styling per Material
    Design guidelines."* Here we rely on the AI's ability to output code
    given design instructions. We must ensure we've provided enough
    detail (like what fields are in the form, any specific design
    system, etc.). The AI earlier suggested using a *"modern framework"*
    for web UI and adhering to separation of
    concerns[\[32\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=interface%20should%20be%20easy%20to,%E2%80%9D),
    so we echo such best practices in our prompt.
- **Iterate and Refine the UI:** Once initial UI code or design is
    provided, we review it and refine via prompts. Maybe the layout
    needs adjustments -- we can instruct: *"Adjust the previous UI code
    to make the submit button more prominent and add validation messages
    under each field."* This iterative improvement parallels what a
    front-end developer would do, and the AI can handle these tweaks
    quickly.

Throughout UI design, we also remember accessibility and responsiveness
if applicable. Prompts can include: *"ensure the design is responsive
for mobile and desktop"* or *"follow accessibility standards (WCAG) for
color contrast and form labels."* The AI, when prompted with these
specifics, will incorporate them or at least keep them in mind (e.g.,
adding alt text to images, using proper HTML labels).

By treating UI design as a collaborative process with the AI -- first
**learning** what good design entails, then **applying** it -- we
maximize the chances of ending up with a user interface that is both
attractive and user-friendly. It's important that our prompts in this
area tie back to the **user needs defined in requirements**, thereby
ensuring the UI serves the functionality without unnecessary complexity
(tying back to avoiding feature creep as well).

## Test Creation and Quality Assurance

No project is complete without thorough testing. We will use prompts to
have the AI generate tests (and possibly even execute or simulate them)
and to perform final code reviews for quality. This stage ensures the
code meets the specifications and is robust.

### Generating Test Cases and Test Code

We start by asking the AI to produce test scenarios and/or test scripts
for our features:

- **Unit and Integration Test Cases:** A prompt might be: *"Generate a
    set of test cases for the appointment scheduling feature. Include
    both typical cases (successful booking) and edge cases
    (double-booking, invalid dates, etc.)."* We should be specific on
    format: maybe we want them as a list of scenarios, or even as actual
    test code (like in a given testing framework). For example,
    *"Provide the test cases as Jasmine unit tests in JavaScript for the
    booking function."* ChatGPT can indeed create such tests. In earlier
    guidance, it's suggested: *"Can you help me write test cases for
    this
    feature?"*[\[33\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=Software%20engineers%20should%20consider%20questions,like),
    and even a sample prompt: *"Generate a set of test cases and test
    data for a web-based e-commerce application\... cover different
    scenarios\... ensure the test cases are easy to follow and include
    test
    scripts."*[\[34\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=Sample%20Pompt%3A).
    We can model our prompts similarly, adjusting for our project
    context.
- **Automated Testing Scripts:** If our project is large, we might
    have the AI generate a **test plan** or automated test scripts
    (e.g., Selenium scripts for UI, or API tests). Prompt example:
    *"Write a pytest test function to verify the login API returns 200
    OK for valid credentials and 401 for invalid ones."* Including a bit
    of context (like the API endpoint details) helps accuracy. The AI
    should output test code that we can then run.
- **Test Data and Mocking:** In cases where we need realistic test
    data or mocks, prompt the AI accordingly: *"Also provide some
    example test data (sample user accounts, appointments) to use in
    these tests."* The AI can generate dummy data which saves time.

After generating tests, we (the human developer) would run them in our
development environment. Since our scenario is a manual process, we
assume tests are run outside of ChatGPT (e.g., by copy-pasting code into
an IDE or using a tool). Any failures or issues discovered can then be
fed back to ChatGPT for debugging help.

### Running Tests and Debugging with AI

If a test fails or a bug is found, we can loop back with a prompt
including the error message or a description of the issue. For example:
*"One test case failed: the system allowed double-booking an
appointment, which it shouldn't. Here is the problematic code snippet.
Help identify the bug and suggest a fix."* This directs the AI's
attention to a specific problem. The AI, acting as a debugger, can
analyze the code and explain what's wrong, then propose a corrected code
block. In a sense, the AI becomes a rubber-duck debugging partner or a
junior QA engineer at this stage.

Even if tests pass, we should do a **final code review** for
cleanliness, performance, and security. A dedicated prompt for code
review could be:

- *"Act as a senior code reviewer. Review the combined code of the
    project for any potential issues: bugs, security vulnerabilities
    (like SQL injection, XSS), performance bottlenecks, or style
    inconsistencies. Provide a list of any problems found, and suggest
    improvements."*

We have evidence that such targeted prompts yield valuable feedback: for
instance, asking an AI as a cybersecurity expert to review code can
uncover vulnerabilities with
explanations[\[35\]](https://www.byteplus.com/en/topic/407919#:~:text=%2A%20For%20a%20Security,concerned%20about%20memory%20usage%20and).
Similarly, asking for performance and maintainability improvements
(e.g., adhering to SOLID principles) can result in insightful
suggestions[\[36\]](https://www.byteplus.com/en/topic/407919#:~:text=,and%20explain%20the%20reasoning%20behind).
By splitting our review prompt into focused areas (security,
performance, readability), we apply the earlier principle of breaking
down tasks for more thorough
results[\[37\]](https://www.byteplus.com/en/topic/407919#:~:text=Another%20crucial%20principle%20is%20to,more%20relevant%20and%20precise%20feedback).

The AI might respond with a bullet list of issues like "Potential SQL
injection in function X -- sanitize inputs" or "Inefficient loop in
module Y -- could use hashing for faster lookup," along with fixes. We
then incorporate those fixes manually or via additional prompts.

Finally, after all tests are green and code is reviewed, we can have
confidence the code is **clean and solid**. At this point, the project
is essentially complete from a development and QA standpoint. (If
deployment is in scope, we could similarly ask for deployment scripts or
instructions, but since our focus was up to finished code, we conclude
here.)

## Multi-Turn Workflow and Retrospective of Choices

Throughout this SDLC workflow, we have employed a **multi-turn, manual
prompting approach**. Each stage's prompts build on the outputs of
previous stages in a conversational manner, which is crucial for
managing complexity. Let's review how our design choices align with the
initial criteria:

- **Front-end and Back-end (Both):** We addressed both aspects of the
    project. Requirements gathering and design prompts considered the
    system as a whole (e.g. UI and server components). Our task
    breakdown separated front-end UI tasks and backend API tasks, and we
    created prompts for each (UI design, UX research for front-end; API
    implementation, database design for back-end). This ensures neither
    side was neglected.
- **Manual Guidance:** The process was driven manually, meaning at
    each phase a human (prompt engineer) decided the next prompt based
    on the previous answer. We did not let the AI run autonomously;
    instead, we carefully crafted each prompt and checked the results,
    in true **human-in-the-loop** fashion. This allowed us to inject
    corrections or additional context as needed, yielding better
    outcomes and preventing errors from compounding.
- **Inclusion of Coding and Execution:** We answered "Yes" to whether
    the AI should actually produce code and other deliverables. Indeed,
    our prompts went beyond planning -- they generated real artifacts:
    requirement documents, design descriptions, code snippets, test
    cases, etc. This provides a tangible finished project, not just
    theoretical advice.
- **Technology Agnostic Start:** We intentionally kept the process
    platform/language agnostic until the AI (via the tech stack research
    prompt) helped determine an appropriate stack. By not fixing a
    framework upfront, we allowed the AI to consider multiple
    options[\[3\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=,to%20use%20for%20this%20project%3F%E2%80%9D)
    and choose what best fits the requirements. This makes our approach
    adaptable to virtually any project domain.
- **Multi-Turn and Iterative:** Yes, our workflow is multi-turn. It's
    essentially a conversation that walks through the SDLC. Each
    prompt's output informed the subsequent prompts, demonstrating the
    power of iterative refinement. We treated ChatGPT as a collaborator
    that one can brainstorm with, refine answers, and progressively home
    in on the final
    solution[\[38\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=4,your%20judgment%20to%20the%20tool).
    The benefit of this multi-turn setup is evident in how we handled
    complex tasks (breaking them down) and verified outputs (through
    follow-up checks), all impossible in a single-turn prompt.

In conclusion, using an AI assistant with carefully engineered prompts
for each SDLC phase can significantly streamline software development.
From idea to implementation to testing, we've shown prompts that elicit
requirements, suggest optimal designs, write code following standards,
and verify the results. By combining **prompt engineering techniques**
(clear context, role specification, iterative refinement, constraint
enforcement, self-checking) with software engineering best practices, we
ensure the AI remains a helpful partner rather than a source of
confusion. The outcome is a coherent, end-to-end development process
that yields a finished project aligned with the original vision -- all
achieved through the artful design of prompts.

**Sources:**

- KMS Technology -- *"30 Best ChatGPT Prompts for Software
    Engineers"*[\[4\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=Simply%20put%2C%20the%20output%E2%80%99s%20quality,depends%20on%20the%20input%E2%80%99s%20quality)[\[23\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=%2C%20you%20may%20need%20to,other%20users%20and%20OpenAI)[\[39\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=To%20refine%20your%20understanding%20of,design%2C%20start%20with%20questions%20like)
    (demonstrating prompting principles and examples for each SDLC
    stage)
- *The Daily Prompt* -- "Break Down Your Project into Manageable
    Tasks"[\[12\]](https://daily.promptperfect.xyz/p/break-down-project-into-manageable-tasks-with-chatgpt#:~:text=I%20have%20a%20project%20where,logical%20sequence%20and%20assign%20deadlines)[\[15\]](https://daily.promptperfect.xyz/p/break-down-project-into-manageable-tasks-with-chatgpt#:~:text=,produces%20focused%20and%20practical%20output)
    (example prompt for task breakdown with dependencies)
- GodofPrompt.ai -- *"How to Stop ChatGPT
    Hallucinations"*[\[16\]](https://www.godofprompt.ai/blog/stop-chatgpt-hallucinations?srsltid=AfmBOooLgHoL8n8BWzBGCS3_gWCWoRyxrZB4Vc3hU7HHNw7OoymQBZxD#:~:text=Want%20more%20accurate%20answers%3F%20Follow,these%2010%20simple%20tips)[\[17\]](https://www.godofprompt.ai/blog/stop-chatgpt-hallucinations?srsltid=AfmBOooLgHoL8n8BWzBGCS3_gWCWoRyxrZB4Vc3hU7HHNw7OoymQBZxD#:~:text=3,or%20wrong%29%20answers)
    (tips to reduce AI misinformation, like asking for sources and
    breaking queries into steps)
- Product School -- *"Avoiding Feature Creep: Tips to Keep Your
    Product
    Focused"*[\[19\]](https://productschool.com/blog/product-strategy/avoiding-feature-creep-tips-to-keep-your-product-focused#:~:text=Establishing%20a%20Clear%20Product%20Vision)
    (importance of a clear vision to prevent scope creep)
- BytePlus -- *"ChatGPT Code Review Prompt: Optimize Your AI
    Reviews"*[\[1\]](https://www.byteplus.com/en/topic/407919#:~:text=To%20get%20the%20most%20out,from%20a%20particular%20expert%20perspective)[\[37\]](https://www.byteplus.com/en/topic/407919#:~:text=Another%20crucial%20principle%20is%20to,more%20relevant%20and%20precise%20feedback)[\[35\]](https://www.byteplus.com/en/topic/407919#:~:text=%2A%20For%20a%20Security,concerned%20about%20memory%20usage%20and)
    (advice on crafting prompts with specific context, role, and focus
    for thorough code analysis)
- KMS Technology -- Prompting considerations on style
    guides[\[23\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=%2C%20you%20may%20need%20to,other%20users%20and%20OpenAI)
    and verification of
    outputs[\[8\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=and%20refine%20as%20necessary,your%20judgment%20to%20the%20tool),
    stressing the need to enforce coding standards and to double-check
    AI results.

[\[1\]](https://www.byteplus.com/en/topic/407919#:~:text=To%20get%20the%20most%20out,from%20a%20particular%20expert%20perspective)
[\[2\]](https://www.byteplus.com/en/topic/407919#:~:text=purpose%20of%20the%20code%2C%20and,from%20a%20particular%20expert%20perspective)
[\[25\]](https://www.byteplus.com/en/topic/407919#:~:text=Integrating%20AI%20into%20the%20code,quality%20and%20maintainability%20across%20projects)
[\[26\]](https://www.byteplus.com/en/topic/407919#:~:text=subtle%20bugs%2C%20performance%20bottlenecks%2C%20and,quality%20development%20workflow)
[\[35\]](https://www.byteplus.com/en/topic/407919#:~:text=%2A%20For%20a%20Security,concerned%20about%20memory%20usage%20and)
[\[36\]](https://www.byteplus.com/en/topic/407919#:~:text=,and%20explain%20the%20reasoning%20behind)
[\[37\]](https://www.byteplus.com/en/topic/407919#:~:text=Another%20crucial%20principle%20is%20to,more%20relevant%20and%20precise%20feedback)
ChatGPT Code Review Prompt: Optimize Your AI Reviews

<https://www.byteplus.com/en/topic/407919>

[\[3\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=,to%20use%20for%20this%20project%3F%E2%80%9D)
[\[4\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=Simply%20put%2C%20the%20output%E2%80%99s%20quality,depends%20on%20the%20input%E2%80%99s%20quality)
[\[5\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=1,For%20example)
[\[6\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=for%20loop%20in%20Python%20to,a%20colleague%20you%E2%80%99re%20having%20a)
[\[7\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=%E2%80%9CGenerate%20a%20project%20charter%20document,%E2%80%9D)
[\[8\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=and%20refine%20as%20necessary,your%20judgment%20to%20the%20tool)
[\[23\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=%2C%20you%20may%20need%20to,other%20users%20and%20OpenAI)
[\[24\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=2,standards%20as%20closely%20as%20possible)
[\[27\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=2,standards%20as%20closely%20as%20possible)
[\[30\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=,best%20practices%20for%20responsive%20design%3F%E2%80%9D)
[\[31\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=%E2%80%9CGenerate%20a%20detailed%20design%20document,design%2C%20and%20database%20design%2C%20along)
[\[32\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=interface%20should%20be%20easy%20to,%E2%80%9D)
[\[33\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=Software%20engineers%20should%20consider%20questions,like)
[\[34\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=Sample%20Pompt%3A)
[\[38\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=4,your%20judgment%20to%20the%20tool)
[\[39\]](https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html#:~:text=To%20refine%20your%20understanding%20of,design%2C%20start%20with%20questions%20like)
30 ChatGPT Prompts for Software Development Engineers - KMS

<https://kms-technology.com/software-development/30-best-chatgpt-prompts-for-software-engineers.html>

[\[9\]](https://community.openai.com/t/chatgpt-memory-and-chat-history-usage-practicalities/1229848#:~:text=ChatGPT%20Memory%20and%20Chat%20History,%E2%80%9CFor%20this%20whole)
ChatGPT Memory and Chat History Usage Practicalities

<https://community.openai.com/t/chatgpt-memory-and-chat-history-usage-practicalities/1229848>

[\[10\]](https://www.reddit.com/r/ChatGPTPromptGenius/comments/1jqzpi9/finally_i_found_a_way_to_keep_chatgpt_remember/#:~:text=%E2%86%92%20C,ChatGPT%E2%80%99s%20memory)
[\[11\]](https://www.reddit.com/r/ChatGPTPromptGenius/comments/1jqzpi9/finally_i_found_a_way_to_keep_chatgpt_remember/#:~:text=The%20prompt%20%E2%86%92)
Finally, I found a way to keep ChatGPT remember everything about Me
daily: : r/ChatGPTPromptGenius

<https://www.reddit.com/r/ChatGPTPromptGenius/comments/1jqzpi9/finally_i_found_a_way_to_keep_chatgpt_remember/>

[\[12\]](https://daily.promptperfect.xyz/p/break-down-project-into-manageable-tasks-with-chatgpt#:~:text=I%20have%20a%20project%20where,logical%20sequence%20and%20assign%20deadlines)
[\[13\]](https://daily.promptperfect.xyz/p/break-down-project-into-manageable-tasks-with-chatgpt#:~:text=smaller%2C%20more%20manageable%20tasks,logical%20sequence%20and%20assign%20deadlines)
[\[14\]](https://daily.promptperfect.xyz/p/break-down-project-into-manageable-tasks-with-chatgpt#:~:text=sequence%20and%20assign%20deadlines)
[\[15\]](https://daily.promptperfect.xyz/p/break-down-project-into-manageable-tasks-with-chatgpt#:~:text=,produces%20focused%20and%20practical%20output)
Break Down Your Project into Manageable Tasks with this Prompt

<https://daily.promptperfect.xyz/p/break-down-project-into-manageable-tasks-with-chatgpt>

[\[16\]](https://www.godofprompt.ai/blog/stop-chatgpt-hallucinations?srsltid=AfmBOooLgHoL8n8BWzBGCS3_gWCWoRyxrZB4Vc3hU7HHNw7OoymQBZxD#:~:text=Want%20more%20accurate%20answers%3F%20Follow,these%2010%20simple%20tips)
[\[17\]](https://www.godofprompt.ai/blog/stop-chatgpt-hallucinations?srsltid=AfmBOooLgHoL8n8BWzBGCS3_gWCWoRyxrZB4Vc3hU7HHNw7OoymQBZxD#:~:text=3,or%20wrong%29%20answers)
[\[18\]](https://www.godofprompt.ai/blog/stop-chatgpt-hallucinations?srsltid=AfmBOooLgHoL8n8BWzBGCS3_gWCWoRyxrZB4Vc3hU7HHNw7OoymQBZxD#:~:text=Not%20sure%20if%20ChatGPT%20is,up%3F%20Here%E2%80%99s%20how%20to%20tell)
How To Stop ChatGPT Hallucinations: Here's How - Workflows

<https://www.godofprompt.ai/blog/stop-chatgpt-hallucinations?srsltid=AfmBOooLgHoL8n8BWzBGCS3_gWCWoRyxrZB4Vc3hU7HHNw7OoymQBZxD>

[\[19\]](https://productschool.com/blog/product-strategy/avoiding-feature-creep-tips-to-keep-your-product-focused#:~:text=Establishing%20a%20Clear%20Product%20Vision)
[\[20\]](https://productschool.com/blog/product-strategy/avoiding-feature-creep-tips-to-keep-your-product-focused#:~:text=%E2%80%93%20Steve%20Johnson)
[\[21\]](https://productschool.com/blog/product-strategy/avoiding-feature-creep-tips-to-keep-your-product-focused#:~:text=,product%E2%80%99s%20direction%20and%20expected%20outcomes)
[\[22\]](https://productschool.com/blog/product-strategy/avoiding-feature-creep-tips-to-keep-your-product-focused#:~:text=Feature%20creep%20happens%20when%20a,was%20originally%20meant%20to%20do)
Avoiding Feature Creep: Tips to Keep Your Product Focused

<https://productschool.com/blog/product-strategy/avoiding-feature-creep-tips-to-keep-your-product-focused>

[\[28\]](https://maximebeauchemin.medium.com/mastering-ai-powered-product-development-introducing-promptimize-for-test-driven-prompt-bffbbca91535#:~:text=,to%20present%20a%20balanced%20view)
[\[29\]](https://maximebeauchemin.medium.com/mastering-ai-powered-product-development-introducing-promptimize-for-test-driven-prompt-bffbbca91535#:~:text=%3E%20%3E%20,or%20sources%20for%20its%20claims)
Mastering AI-Powered Product Development: Introducing Promptimize for
Test-Driven Prompt Engineering \| by Maxime Beauchemin \| Medium

<https://maximebeauchemin.medium.com/mastering-ai-powered-product-development-introducing-promptimize-for-test-driven-prompt-bffbbca91535>
